---
layout: post
title: Wow... feedback and downloads
category: [news]
---

The last few days have been very interesting.  First, my app was downloaded way more than I anticipated.  This makes me nervous because I know it's not exactly stable at the moment and I hate selling a buggy product.  Of course, it won't corrupt data or anything like that, but there are crashes, UI glitches, issues with Bluetooth Keyboards, and various other issues in the current version.  As I mentioned before, I released Flexile as a "soft" release hoping only to get a few adventurous users (and some others that didn't want to wait).  I just didn't expect to get so many downloads.  So I've posted a warning in the App description letting people know what they're getting in to (I really should have done this from the beginning).  I've submitted an update on 11/9/2012 that fixes pretty much all the bugs and makes Flexile a very stable app.  Unfortunately, Apple is taking about 9 days to approve updates so it'll be a few more days until the update is approved.

I want to thank all the people have been sending in feedback and helping work the bugs out of Flexile.  This feedback is exactly what I was hoping to get when I released Flexile and it has been an immense help to me.  I'm looking forward to this next update hitting and starting to actually get Flexile out there for people to review.

And this is only the beginning.  I've got so many ideas on where to take Flexile and I'm looking forward to making Flexile a better product.  I've added a page to keep track of features that I want to include in Flexile here: http://flexilesoft.com/flexiles-future/.  While these aren't set in stone they should give you a good idea of where I'm taking Flexile.

I do hope that Flexile will be the product you want it to be.  Please send me feedback.  Even if it's negative, I want to know. I've got thick skin, I can take it.  The more feedback I get the quicker I can respond and make Flexile a better product.  