---
layout: post
title: 1.0.7 - Released 6/01/2013
category: [release-notes]
---

Bug Fixes

Replaced all instances of UIScrollView with DrawScrollView to get the directional indicator functionality. Somehow I had missed a few views.

(Fixed) when stripping strings to a number in the NumberFormatter, it wouldn't detect negative values ("-") if the negative wasn't the first item (if there was a string prefix). It will now strip the prefix and appropriately detect the negative number.

(Fixed) Adding/Removing/Rearranging/Editing Table Sections wouldn't update the displaying table. This would lead to a crash in a lot of situations (collapsing a section, or even tapping on a table) as the underlying data was misaligned to the displayed table list.

(Fixed) If you saved a Record and the changes caused it to no longer be listed in the record set, Flexile would crash.

(Fixed) Occasional Crash when conforming a Control to a View Definition. This happened sometimes when bringing Flexile to the foreground after it had been moved to the background.

(Fixed) If you tried to save an Aggregate Field, and the table that field refers to was deleted, Flexile will crash.

(Fixed) Table list section header didn't update table count after deleting a table

(Fixed) Sometimes an Aggregate Field would show as "needing to be saved" when it nothing had changed in the field.

(Fixed) In some cases, you could choose to aggregate the very same aggregate field, this would lead to a cycle and crash when you tried to save

(Fixed) Deleting a field didn't remove references other aggregate fields had to the field.

(Fixed) Deleting a Table and then visiting a record in another table that was linked to the deleted table would cause Flexile to crash only if you had previously visited that record.

(Fixed) Unable to select "Back" in the Link Selection Screen if you haven't altered your selection

